Bacterial  pathogens  have evolved numerous defense mechanisms against antimicrobial  agents; 
 hence  resistance  to  old and  newly  produced  drugs  is  on  the  rise.  The phenomenon  of 
 antibiotic  resistance  exhibited by the pathogenic microorganisms has led to the need  for  screening 
 of  several  medicinal  plants for their potential antimicrobial activity. Chemical compounds  from  the  
leaves  of  A.  malabarica have  a  wide  spectrum  of  antibacterial  action against  Gram-negative  and 
 Gram-positive pathogenic  bacteria  such  as  Escherichia  coli, Klebsiella  pneumoniae,  Staphylococcus aureus,
Journal of Agr.  Essential oil of A. malabarica  was  found  to have anti-allergic 
properties .  Anti-anaphylactic:  Anaphylaxis  is  a  serious allergic  reaction 
 that  is  rapid  in  onset  and may cause death. Anaphylaxis is a severe, potentially fatal,  systemic  
allergic  reaction  that  occurs suddenly  after  contact  with  an  allergy-causing substance.  Worldwide
  0.05-2%  of  people  are estimated  to  have anaphylaxis  at some  point in their life  and  the occurrence 
 rate appears  to  be increasing .  Currently,  focus on plant  research  has  improved  
all  over  the  world and a large body  of  evidence is accumulated  to show  immense  potential  of  medicinal  plants used  in  various  traditional  systems.  A. malabarica  has  essential  chemical  compounds serve  as  an  anti-anaphylactic  agent  (Kavitha  et al., 2012).  Anti-bacterial:  Bacterial  pathogens  have evolved numerous defense mechanisms against antimicrobial  agents;  hence  resistance  to  old and  newly  produced  drugs  is  on  the  rise.  The phenomenon  of  antibiotic  resistance  exhibited by the pathogenic microorganisms has led to the need  for  screening  of  several  medicinal  plants for their potential antimicrobial activity. Chemical compounds  from  the  leaves  of  A.  malabarica have  a  wide  spectrum  of  antibacterial  action against  Gram-negative  and  Gram-positive pathogenic  bacteria  such  as  Escherichia  coli, Klebsiella  pneumoniae,  Staphylococcus aureus.